you
13 on screen survival hacks that never
work in real life
blockbuster heroes managed to survive in
any situation mortal wounds and natural
disasters have nothing on them we all
want to be like them and we believe
using their survival lessons could help
us too we collected the 13 most common
on-screen survival tips that don't work
in real life more than that it can do
you a lot of harm and even get you
killed
don't try to reproduce them on your own
the characters only stayed alive thanks
to the directors imagination
number thirteen wearing cotton clothes
cotton clothes might look good unhappy
on screen campers in real life cotton is
not the best material for clothes to
keep you safe and warm out in the wild
cotton absorbs 27 times its weight in
water it also takes a very long time to
dry and wet clothes lose heat 25 times
faster than dry clothes getting caught
in the rain or sweating will be enough
to freeze so if you want to avoid
hypothermia that is your body
temperature dropping because you will
start losing heat faster than you can
produce it
do not wear cotton if you're going
hiking take clothes made of polyester
nylon or wool
number twelve throwing away your phone
if it doesn't pick up a signal
almost all movies which involve a play
in shipwreck with survivors will have a
similar scene the character tries to
pick up some signal and make a call to
safety but when they see their desert
island has no coverage they toss the
phone away dramatically if you get lost
in the woods or some other scary
isolated place don't copy what you see
on the screen it will not turn you into
Tom Hanks and you will make it harder
for rescuers to find you your phone is
not useless even if you can't call it
still pings nearby phone network towers
and makes a digital map of your route so
that rescuers can trace your location to
save the battery turn your phone off
every half an hour
number 11 getting down on the ground
during a thunderstorm thunderstorms with
raging lightning look pretty dramatic
both in real life and on the screen it
is the perfect backdrop for an
end-of-the-world movie or the lead
character leaving for the army forever
how do people on screen react to a
thunderstorm they often fall on the
ground and cover their head with their
hands word to the wise don't do it the
energy of a lightning flash heats the
air to more than 50,000 degrees
Fahrenheit in a few millionths of a
second wet soil is an excellent
electricity conductor so you'll only
increase the chances of the lightning
hitting you to stay alive you should
minimize contact with the ground the
safest place for shelter is inside a
building there are no buildings around
squat down and make sure you're not the
highest object in the area why because
lightning is very straightforward
it simply hits what it reaches easiest
[Music]
number 10 jumping from a speeding car
we all love action movies hit the like
button if you agree one of the most
eye-catching tricks in them is jumping
from a speeding car you'll never get me
alive screams the lead character opens
the car door using some magic he's tied
up remember and rolls out of the vehicle
he then merrily stands up and runs away
into the woods have you ever felt the
urge to reproduce this in case you're
kidnapped or something remember that
even if the offender's placed you next
to an unlocked door you'd ring your neck
trying to impress them with this feat
this might lead to your death or a
paralysis and the kidnappers will take
you to their destination without any
trouble
number nine finding directions using
moss on trees
we know this from childhood times and
those golden Scout days and movie set in
the woods moss grows on the north side
of trees however this rule is only true
for the northern hemisphere and even
then it's not always right Moss and
lichen like shade and humidity a lot of
factors in nature can create shade and
high humidity so that moss can grow in
all directions
so does this mean there's no way out of
that forest maze don't worry there is if
you don't have a compass use a watt hold
you watch up in front of you and let the
hour-hand point at the Sun cut the angle
between the hour hand and 12:00 o'clock
in half that way is south and the
opposite direction is north
number eight eating snow to quench
thirst Leonardo DiCaprio has got his
long-awaited Oscar for his lead role in
the revenant it was well deserved but it
doesn't mean this or other survival in
the winter movies should be used as your
survival handbook for example you should
not use snow to quench your thirst snow
has a low density you'll have to eat
several buckets of it to get a glass of
water your throat and teeth won't bear
that you won't slake your thirst and to
make matters worse you'll get sick
snow is also hard to use as a thirst
quencher because it's pure like
distilled water and doesn't contain any
mineral salts if there is no other
source of water you should melt some ice
first and only then drink it are you
finding the tips interesting then give
us a thumbs up keep watching till the
end to find out why starting a fire in a
cave can be super risky and if it is
okay to ignore warning signs
number seven outrunning a wild animal
you might have been the fastest in your
PE class and can still easily outrun
your Dutch hound but it won't work on
wild animals don't be sad it's not just
you any wild animal is faster and
stronger than any human
so all those wild nature said action
movies are not that true if you don't
have weapons the beasts will most likely
win it is a good idea to study the
habits of animals that live in the area
you are visiting here's what to do if
you encounter the following animals for
a moose you only need to go off its path
moose are easy to avoid because they
make a lot of noise if the animal is
aggressive climb a tree or any other
high object boars usually try to get
away upon noticing humans the main thing
is not to touch young piglets their
mothers are very dangerous if the animal
is running in your direction you can
save yourself on an elevated object
boars
also can't stand noise if you see a bear
don't approach it try to get away from
there carefully if a brown or grizzly
bear charges do not run away
stay calm lie face down with your hands
clasped behind your neck and shout for
help
don't shoot out the bear you'll only
make it angry if a black bear charges
try to escape or fight back wolves hunt
at night and shun people if you still
become an object of lupine interest
don't try to run walk away without
turning your back so as not to provoke
an attack and start talking but not
shouting loudly move until you walk up
to the nearest tree wolves will not
climb it
number six Rahmi can treat a black eye
when your life is full of action the
risk of getting a black eye gets higher
you have probably seen heroes use raw
meat to treat their battle wounds it is
all wrong
raw meat is not to be applied to your
eyes because it can cause an infection
this can even prove fatal if you're out
in the wilderness with no disinfectants
or antibiotics at hand instead apply ice
packs for 15 to 20 minutes once every
half hour during the first 24 hours
after the injury to avoid local freezing
wrap the ice and cloth number 5 starting
a fire in a cave starting a fire in a
cave seems like a very natural thing to
do after all it kept early humans alive
right keep that for the history books
and the movie scream if you start a fire
in a cave warmth will cause the rock to
expand which can lead to the cave
falling in start fires outdoors unless
you want to be buried in the collapse
cave
[Music]
number four you can't let someone with a
head injury fall asleep there is a wrong
belief that if a concussed person falls
asleep they'll sink into a coma and
won't wake up again
death is not inevitable but sleep
deprivation will certainly weaken the
person light concussions pass by soon
enough and sleep will only help the
patient to bounce back if there are more
concerning symptoms such as an
increasing headache nausea or loss of
orientation the injured person should be
taken to the hospital as soon as
possible
so if the injured want to sleep let them
sleep number three if you are lost you
should get moving immediately if you get
lost and want to be found
you should run towards safety it might
help movie characters but do you know
where safety is in real life rescuers
will be looking for you at the place
where your trace was seen last if you
move along and unknown route there's a
risk of you getting even more lost and
never being found
so don't stray away pain wait for a
search party leave your place only when
extremely necessary and go back when
possible number two you can outrun a
tornado
in movies you can often see characters
admiring tornadoes coming their way time
seems to have slowed down or stopped
completely we have news for you
there is no slow motion effect in real
life if you know a tornado is coming
close all the doors windows and
ventilation holes take the most
necessary things water flashlights
medicines documents and take shelter in
the basement or an interior room on the
first floor with as many walls between
you and the outside as possible make
sure you do it fast
both the tornado and flying debris are a
great risk to your life number 1 warning
signs are negligible movie characters
like to ignore warning signs
it seems that danger and state clear
signs look almost inviting to them be a
law-abiding citizen for your safety if
you see a warning sign in the woods
there are serious reasons for it and you
don't want to find out what they are
after all there must be a reason why
most horror films begin with someone
violating a prohibitive sign and it
might be more real than you could
imagine
we hope you will never find yourself in
the situations described in this video
but if you do now you know what to do
like this video if you found it useful
and subscribe to our channel not to miss
any updates stay on the bright side
[Music]